Update Data Transforms (#9371)
dotnet/docs: docs/machine-learning/resources/transforms.md

> ---

Reviewer: Also, I'd reorganize the doc into the name space..

Eg: 
`OneHotEncodingTransformer` should go in the section for `Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Categorical`, "Categorical".

> title: Machine learning data transforms - ML.NET

Author: But are transforms estimators? That seems confusing.

> description: Explore the different data transforms supported in ML.NET.

Author: Great suggestion!

author: JRAlexander
ms.custom: seodec18
ms.date: 12/04/2018
---

> # Machine learning data transforms - ML.NET

Reviewer 2: I find it a bit odd to have the - showing up in H1. I'd make the H1 different here and not use -

Maybe the original H1 was good and the non-branded terms are already added to the title metadata for SEO purposes.

The following tables contain information about all of the data transforms supported in ML.NET.

> [!NOTE]
> ML.NET is currently in Preview. Not all data transforms are currently supported. To submit a request for a certain transform, open an issue in the [dotnet/machinelearning](https://github.com/dotnet/machinelearning/issues) GitHub repository.

## Combiners and segregators

| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.GroupTransform> | Groups values of a scalar column into a vector based on a contiguous group ID. |

Author: Yes, that should be filed as an issue on the dotnet/machinelearning repo as the API ref is auto-generated from the code XMLcomments.

## Conversions 

| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Conversions.HashingTransformer> | Hashes either single valued columns or vector columns. For vector columns, it hashes each slot separately. It can hash either text values or key values. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Legacy.Transforms.HashConverter> | Converts column values into hashes. This transform accepts both numeric and text inputs, both single and vector-valued columns. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Conversions.HashJoiningTransform> | Converts multiple column values into hashes. This transform accepts both numeric and text inputs, both single and vector-valued columns. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Conversions.KeyToBinaryVectorMappingTransformer> | Converts a key to a binary vector column. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Conversions.KeyToValueMappingTransformer > | Utilizes KeyValues metadata to map key indices to the corresponding values in the KeyValues metadata. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Conversions.KeyToVectorMappingTransformer> | Converts a key to a vector column. |

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Conversions.TypeConvertingTransformer> | Changes underlying column type provided the type is able to be converted. |

Reviewer 2: is able to -> can?

| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.ImageAnalytics.ImageGrayscaleTransform> | Takes one or more ImageType columns and converts them to a greyscale representation of the same image.|
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.ImageAnalytics.ImageLoaderTransform> | Takes one or more ReadOnlyMemory columns and loads them as an ImageType. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.ImageAnalytics.ImagePixelExtractorTransform> | Takes one or more ImageType columns and converts them into a vector representation.|
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.ImageAnalytics.ImageResizerTransform> | Takes one or more ImageType columns and resizes them to  the provided height and width.|
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Text.LatentDirichletAllocationTransformer> | Implements LightLDA, a state-of-the-art implementation of Latent Dirichlet Allocation.|
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.LoadTransform> | Loads specific transforms from the specified model file. Allows for 'cherry picking' transforms from a serialized chain, or to apply a pre-trained transform to a different (but still compatible) data view. |

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Text.NgramExtractingTransformer> | Produces a bag of counts of ngrams (sequences of consecutive values of length 1-n) in a given vector of keys. It does so by building a dictionary of ngrams and using the id in the dictionary as the index in the bag. | 

Author: All three or just the last one?

| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.ResNet18Extension> | This is an extension method to be used with the <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.DnnImageFeaturizerEstimator> to use a pretrained ResNet18 model. The NuGet containing this extension is also guaranteed to include the binary model file. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.ResNet50Extension> | This is an extension method to be used with the <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.DnnImageFeaturizerEstimator> to use a pretrained ResNet50model. The NuGet containing this extension is also guaranteed to include the binary model file. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.ResNet101Extension> | This is an extension method to be used with the <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.DnnImageFeaturizerEstimator> to use a pretrained ResNet101 model. The NuGet containing this extension is also guaranteed to include the binary model file. |

## Label parsing

| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Legacy.Transforms.Dictionarizer> | Converts input values (words, numbers, etc.) to index in a dictionary. |

Author: Not that I'm aware of. @asthana86, @shauheen, @shmoradims, or @CESARDELATORRE - any thoughts?

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Legacy.Transforms.Dictionarizer> | Converts input values (words, numbers, etc.) to index in a dictionary. |

Author: If not, I'll remove it.

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Legacy.Transforms.Dictionarizer> | Converts input values (words, numbers, etc.) to index in a dictionary. |

Author: Removed.

| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Legacy.Transforms.LabelColumnKeyBooleanConverter> | Transforms the label to either key or bool (if needed) to make it suitable for classification. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.LabelConvertTransform> |  Converts labels. |

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.LabelIndicatorTransform> | Remaps multiclass labels to binary T,F labels, primarily for use with OVA.|

Reviewer 2: so people know what T,F labels are?

| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Normalizers.MinMaxSngAggregator> | Tracks min, max, number of non-sparse values (vCount) and number of ProcessValue() calls (trainCount) for a vector valued column. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Normalizers.NormalizeTransform> | Standardizes feature ranges. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Normalizers.NormalizingTransformer> |Standardizes feature ranges. |

## Onnx

| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.OnnxTransform> | Scores pre-trained ONNX models which use the ONNX standard v1.2 |

## Preprocessing
| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.BootstrapSamplingTransformer> | Approximates bootstrap sampling using Poisson sampling. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Projections.RandomFourierFeaturizingTransformer> | Produces random Fourier feature. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Text.TokenizingByCharactersTransformer> | Character-oriented tokenizer where text is considered a sequence of characters. |

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Projections.VectorWhiteningTransformer> | Simplfies optimatization to assist with identifying weights. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Projections.VectorWhiteningTransformer> | Simplifies optimization to assist with identifying weights. |
```

## TensorFlow

| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.TensorFlowTransform> | Either scores with pretrained TensorFlow model or retrains TensorFlow model. |

## Text processing and featurization

| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Text.TextNormalizingTransformer> | A text normalization transform that allows normalizing text case, removing diacritical marks, punctuation marks and/or numbers. The transform operates on text input as well as vector of tokens/text (vector of ReadOnlyMemory). |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.Text.TokenizingByCharactersTransformer> | Character-oriented tokenizer where text is considered a sequence of characters. |

## Time series

| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.TimeSeriesProcessing.ExponentialAverageTransform> | Takes a weighted average of the values: ExpAvg(y_t) = a * y_t + (1-a) * ExpAvg(y_(t-1)). |

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.TimeSeriesProcessing.IidChangePointDetector> | Implements the change point detector transform for an i.i.d. sequence based on adaptive kernel density estimation and martingales. |

Reviewer 2: do people know what i.i.d. means?

Author: probably not. updated.

| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.TimeSeriesProcessing.MovingAverageTransform> | Provides a weighted average of the sliding window values. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.TimeSeriesProcessing.PercentileThresholdTransform> | Decides whether the time-series current value belongs to the sliding window top values percentile. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.TimeSeriesProcessing.PValueTransform> | Computes the series current value empirical p-value based on the other values in the sliding window. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.TimeSeriesProcessing.SlidingWindowTransform> | Outputs a sliding window on a time series of type Single. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.TimeSeriesProcessing.SsaChangePointDetector> | Implements the change point detector transform based on Singular Spectrum modeling of the time-series. |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Runtime.TimeSeriesProcessing.SsaSpikeDetector> | Implements the spike detector transform based on Singular Spectrum modeling of the time-series. |

## Miscellaneous

| Transform | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.CompositeTransformer> | Creates a Composite DataTransform. |

> | <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.CustomMappingTransformer%602> | Generates additional columns to the provided IDataView. It doesn't change the number of rows, and can be seen as a result of application of the user's function to every row of the input data.|

Reviewer 2: code fence API names or use xref

```suggestion
| <xref:Microsoft.ML.Transforms.CustomMappingTransformer%602> | Generates additional columns to the provided IDataView. It doesn't change the number of rows and can be seen as a result of application of the user's function to every row of the input data.|
```
